Export more Vite types, document presets (#8654)
remix-run/remix: docs/future/presets.md

---
title: Presets (Unstable)
---

# Presets (Unstable)

The [Remix Vite plugin][remix-vite] supports a `presets` option to ease integration with other tools and hosting providers.

Presets can only do two things:

- Configure the Remix Vite plugin on your behalf.
- Validate the resolved config.

> The config returned by each preset is merged in the order they were defined before finally merging in any config directly passed to the Remix Vite plugin. This means that user config will always take precedence over any presets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The config returned by each preset is merged in the order they were defined. Any config directly passed to the Remix Vite plugin will be merged last. This means that user config will always take precedence over any presets.
```

## Using a preset

> Presets are designed to be published to npm and consumed within your Vite config. For example, Remix ships with a preset for Cloudflare:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presets are designed to be published to npm and used within your Vite config. For example, Remix ships with a preset for Cloudflare:
```

```ts filename=vite.config.ts lines=[3,10]
import {
  unstable_vitePlugin as remix,
  unstable_cloudflarePreset as cloudflare,
} from "@remix-run/dev";
import { defineConfig } from "vite";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    remix({
      presets: [cloudflare()],
    }),
  ],
  // etc.
});
```

## Creating a preset

> Presets are objects that conform to the following `Unstable_Preset` type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presets conform to the following `Unstable_Preset` type:
```

```ts
type Unstable_Preset = {
  name: string;

  remixConfig?: () =>
    | RemixConfigPreset
    | Promise<RemixConfigPreset>;

  remixConfigResolved?: (args: {
    remixConfig: ResolvedVitePluginConfig;
  }) => void | Promise<void>;
};
```

### Defining preset config

As a basic example, let's create a preset that configures a [server bundles function][server-bundles]:

```ts filename=my-cool-preset.ts
import type { Unstable_Preset as Preset } from "@remix-run/dev";

> export function myCoolPreset(): Preset {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export function my😎Preset(): Preset {
```
